## Mindset Assignment
### Asking for Help part 2

At the start of class we discussed how to effectively ask for help. Feel free to review that topic and recall your answers from that mindset assignment. We’ll be talking about asking for help again, but this time let’s focus on the _when _since we’ve already covered the how.
At the beginning of this course (or at the beginning of your first ever course) you may have wanted to ask for help as soon as you hit a problem and before you even tried to debug or problem solve on your own. You don’t have to do that anymore since you have those problem solving and debugging processes we’ve been talking about. But the opposite can happen too; sometimes you get so determined to solve the problem on your own that you spend hours longer than you needed to trying to fix something, when asking for help could have saved you time and frustration.
Read this article about knowing when to ask for help at work, then answer the following questions:

#### Please answer the below prompts in your assignment submission:

- Q: Have you implemented/used any new strategies since the previous post on how to ask for help? If so what were they and how did they turn out for you?
- A: I haven't really changed the way I approach problem solving. I still usually try and solve it on my own for some time before looking for the answer online. I rarely tend to ask for help just because of the abundance of information available at our fingertips.
- Q: After reading the article what changes (if any) will you make to your strategy?
- A: My strategy will likely remain the same. However if a complex need may arise I will certainly ask for help if I cannot figure it out after an hour of searching online for the answer.
- Q: What are some ways you can determine which “circle” (inner circle of things you know, middle circle of things you can figure out on your own, outer circle of things you don’t know and can’t learn by yourself) your blocker/bug/issue falls into?
- A: With programming (and many other things) there are often many ways to solve a problem. Approaching it with a logic that makes the most sense to me is typically the best way for me to solve something without any access to the internet. Sometimes it is useful to get feedback on your answer, but unless performance is the priority I find it's usually best to solve things as logically as possible, that way I can better explain what is happening in my own words. I have confidence in solving most problems without the internet, especially since I own a small library of books on programming principles and often read through them and take notes while practicing new ways to do things. I struggle the most solving complex algorithms such as challenges on leetcode, etc. To answer the question though, to determine if something is in the inner circle, it's often solved before I can consider looking up an answer, so most of the time, things will fall into the middle circle, where I have to ask myself what the result should be and then work backwards to try and find a function that will return or do what I need the application to do under a certain circumstance. With a couple of hours and appropriate documentation, I can find a solution. If it falls under the outer circle though, I will still try hard to figure it out on my own but ultimately if I cannot then I will talk to my wife about it and we will try to solve it together. I learn a lot from pair programming, watching others code, or explaining how to do things to others. I get most frustrated at complex algorithms though and reckognize that as my biggest weakness in programming. Sometimes it is worth taking a break and coming back to it also. But in the end sometimes asking for help is simply the best thing a programmer can do.